I am
streaming
and I got a list of things that I
actually want to do so the first thing I
want to do is just
take uh basically all of the examples
documentation stuff from Bend and I I
calculated out it's about 160,000 tokens
so G has up to 1 million tokens so I'm
going to just try to give it that
and then ask it to do some stuff and see
whatever how good it
is
then I think it would be eventually good
to write the simplest low
performance interaction calculus
system because it's nice to have the
version that people actually use but
also the really really simple version
that is more theoretical and more you
know
beautiful um of course mat
mole we didn't even get to
that um but apparently they're adding
intrinsics for matm
so or for matrices in
Array
okay then CIO aom that's like yeah yeah
whatever I would like to try out the
inet
thing where you can view the
graphs I think that would be kind of
cool I really want to understand this
compiler cuz I don't
get like if it's the
graph how's the graph
stored presumably the graph is stored on
the
GPU maybe what you
do is you like
partition the
graph into subgraphs
perform all those
rewrites
because the subgraph let's say you cut
off the edges between cores so you have
two cores that each have a subgraph but
there are edges between those two
subgraphs if you just ignore those then
do it all in parallel
then like once it's to a certain size
you could recombine those two cores I
guess I don't know how that's actually
if that's actually how it's done but
conceptually that's kind of how I would
think it would be
done okay the next thing is I mean come
on we got to run AI on this thing are we
crazy it's
2024 the whole point of programming is
to do AI
okay now these
two I'm actually very interested in one
how do you Prov that something is turn
complete like I said system is turning
complete in a formal language can you
even do that I have no idea but the the
other
one potentially could be easier it's
probably still a lot of work because you
have to like formalize interaction
calculus or inets in lean I don't know
how hard that would
be but
basically the graph rewriting system
what this whole thing is
Bend and everything is you have some big
graph and there are rules on how you
step forward the graph and change it so
Confluence is the
principle is a property of rewriting
systems describing which terms in such a
system can be Rewritten in more than one
way and yield the same
result so you can look at that
um the next
one oh yeah it' be cool to look at the
graphs of a simple system like SK
combinator system like what is cuz this
is okay so for graph VI I probably want
to look at ski combinators graphs or
cellular autom graphs or something
that's like an interesting
computation
uh that's not just like adding numbers I
guess I mean it would be cool to look at
the graphs from lots of other fun simple
functions like the sum tree
example but I like this I like this
language and symbolics so that I feel
like this would be a cool one okay so I
read something earlier this morning
before I wrote this or after I wrote
this list that not that I checked but my
GPU probably has less than
128k L1 cache which is what you need to
run bend on your GPU as of today okay
and then this one I feel like should be
easy but it's um it's just a repple
around
Bend
um and it's basically something where
you can copy and paste in a Bend program
and it'll evaluate it in a toggle of run
run C and run
coup so basically and then give you
timings and whatever cuz I I feel like
we just need to build some tooling to
make it really easy to start writing
programs evaluating them you know like
compiling is not so bad you just write
Bend run
but I would probably still want a
repple
um okay and then I definitely want to
actually read all of the papers like the
first
paper by yez leant and
whatever but I feel
like what should we start
with the first thing I want to start
with is
probably the Gemini thing just cuz it
seems
fun I probably have to do this right now
so I'm buying Gemini
Advanced okay
all
right
so I
have wait where did I put oh wait this
is not even right cuz um
okay wait I want to build Bend from
Source actually which should just be a
matter
of like how do I tell oops that's not
what I
wanted
um okay for now it doesn't actually
matter okay so I wrote a little I I'll
show you guys what this does but it it
basically just helps me do some prompt
engineering um but we want the
newest cool
I can probably just do
this
wait
uh um
to to run
the
examples from cloning
Bend okay so what do I
do H that's kind of weird right
I mean yeah it shouldn't be the same as
cargo because it's not rust but I kind
of would have hoped that
works but I mean it's not a big
deal okay so now what we want to do now
we're up to date is I want to run
this
e
e e
wait what how does it go I don't want to
get banned bro it's maybe a risk I
should
take oh wait I'll play it on here and
then uh radio
oh all right all right all right
[Music]
okay
so okay so
basically this script just tells me how
many tokens and I'm using the GPT for
tokenizer I think but like how different
could it really be the Gemini
tokenizer actually I'm C
curious
Gemini
H I want to
know I thought they said 1 million
tokut how do I do
it let's just past this big ass one from
a long time
ago wait that's not going to
work oh maybe it
will wait
so it's
not how do I use
it what the
freck I don't understand how else can I
use this I bet using an API is
terrible what does that even mean
I wonder how many tokens it is how can I
even find
out maybe I should upload the
file I'll just put it I put it here
what
uh wait
what wait that's not what I
wanted okay fine I'm fine with that
the hell was that load image upload
document uh
Source Cuda prompt
I'm suspicious if it actually reads the
whole thing
I
why does this look like utter garbage I
gave it
this this prompt is like
probably pretty
good dude this is complete gibberish oh
it's like these AIS are actually pretty
dumb kind of disappointed
okay fine what what else was in our list
of things to actually do cuz that that
was kind of so okay to answer Gemini
can't do [__] Gemini Advance kind of
sucks
this is garbage code
really write a b run up example
it doesn't even put it in a
main it's like
wow pretty
upset but
whatever what else are we going to do
oh yeah what do the graphs look like
the
hell why are they in
h
oh okay
why are they in
JavaScript it's kind of weird right
these are both really
bad okay so
maybe okay so
answer
terrible
okay uh this needs to go down
below we we should at least okay
so existing options were
garbage what does the text format of a
computation
State
graph look like presumably you can
take like okay basically what does the
bend compiler
output
because it should out put a
graph
um that's what I think should output a
um so let's try to do
that um
so
so there's Ben
run and then
there's oh there we go okay so that's
exactly what I
wanted I think so
Jen wait uh Bend
Jen h
does this work
okay
so
this
is a
graph compiles the program to hvmc
[Music]
okay so this is like an IR or
something has to to
hpmc okay so this is the actual
where would I even find the answer to
that okay so we should probably oh yeah
we should probably just read through
everything one more time and take some
notes
cuz
um
um yeah so hvm is a low-level compile
Target for highle languages it provides
a raw Syntax for wiring interaction
Nets yeah so this is the IR
basically yeah so
okay so let's go back to that issue
because I'll just respond to that issue
I'll ask
him
um for
okay
I mean I should actually look at the
source code but I don't know is this a
dumb
question so we get
we run hvm
gen and we get this
thing now I don't understand any of
this I guess would be
this still somehow is
lowered once more to the app tool
but
haven't looked
okay anyways that's
like cuz the thing is that these
graphers I don't think
plus I don't think that this necessarily
works
n minus one infix works that's kind of
an interesting
choice how do we even find
out as
wait why is this K
to it's run okay I hear I see this so
yeah what does run
do let's clone
this oh actually
I'll just have
another oh
L all
right
okay file code book as book parse code
so that's probably what does this return
this returns a
book so what is a
book it's a VEC of
death interesting
okay I love how simple writing and
programming language
is I me this one's presumably
global net so this is probably what I
want
to what's an a
pair
[Music]
Atomic okay
so all right so so presumably if we just
do cargo run D-
release uh then we want to
do examples oh wait we want to do run
examples
um yeah sure some
tree main. Ben no main.
hm okay cool all right we're get in
somewhere all right that's
fine um
H go to
Discord just do this just in case
what
the for
wait you know what um let's
try let's try a different example how
about that
I wonder if this is an issue
sometimes stalls what if I just reduce
this
to
five wait is that too short of a
time they definitely need IO
[Music]
wait you know what I can
do um I have Bend it's an old version
but I
could
um food up Bend we could go
what is
the okay
wait okay so that was like
instant okay so I'm going to
do gen
hvm this
to uh
okay so now that we have this I should
be able
to yo if you're selling art I don't
really
care okay but no we're working on a
programming
language okay your profile is
nothing all right
um yeah
so okay
uh yeah so now what I want to do is I
want to do cargo run run
C Food
HPM you know what it could be
that
bend is outputting so what what is is so
if we go to the this with the source is
there a main so there is a main so I
should be able to do CR D- release d
d
uh gen
hvm okay so now presumably it's uh yeah
because of some
uh change in the
IR I don't know if that's exactly true
but I could definitely see it being true
considering it's an old version
Okay cool so now hopefully that's
different
[Music]
okay what should I
say I just cloned Bend and
hbm both
on
Main I first did
um which I
believe gives me something
that HPM should be able to run so wait I
guess what I should also
try
is
um
okay is just
run okay
I should actually make this a GitHub
issue is anyone getting this parse
eror okay
I'm so bad at this where is
it
for
for for
so what command was that that
was for
wait let me do this
okay what's up man I've really been
hitting it lately
dude I am loving
it I I am
loving this summer is going to be good
for me
man
um okay so what else do I need to say oh
yeah
um I am using wsl2
Windows
11 I don't have enough
experience to really debug
further for
okay yeah Bend is the name of the
language and it's it's a highlevel
language that supposedly can run on gpus
without having to like do a whole bunch
of custom nonsense and it's all based on
the fact that the compiler outputs a
graph data structure that this is my
understanding I'm not sure if it's
exactly right but a graph data structure
that has certain node types and then for
each interaction of node types like
where edges are there is a a rule on how
to
transform that edge or the nodes there
whether or not it's getting rid of both
of the nodes or stuff like that and that
represents advancing the state of the
computation but the thing is since it's
all local it doesn't matter which
rewrite is done in what order so it's a
very parallel
way to write code or at least Express
computation so bend is now like a
front-end language for this hvm which is
a virtual machine that is basically
built to run these graphs there's a
whole I mean it just got released in
their version one there's a whole bunch
of stuff that really needs to get done
but basically I have a list of things
that I'm curious about and I'm just
going through
them yeah dude I love these but this one
is actually okay so they're both very
similar Bend kind Bend
and you
know it is it is in Rust well it's in
Rust C and Cuda because it h the
compiler has three modes that it can
output for it can Target C it can Target
Cuda only certain graphics cards though
but okay here's the thing
Mathematica okay Bend is written
entirely in Russ though Bend is just a
front end language though
so
um I want to read more about the
compiler but dude their their website
higher order Co is so so beautiful dude
I love watching this
animation welcome to the parallel future
of
computation dude actually the creator of
the language Victor talin he saw my
previous video on
it uh so this video is a pretty
good so I asked about how to how to
actually draw this graph out this one
was hand up
done but like if you want any kind of
real debugger then uh you're going to
need to be able to draw these or inspect
them because it's a totally different
way of thinking about
everything but uh the the similarity
between Mathematica and and hvm is that
they're both rewriting systems they're
both patter matching rewriting systems
and that's why they're
cool but this language because of the
parallel it actually might be
useful
um okay let's try this this is
the yeah so I think maybe main is not
I think there there's some oh yeah here
wait someone
responded
um
but if I'm using
main
isn't isn't see cargo run going to
you
or do I need to pull
again dude I know I don't know how the
hell to read that thing it's totally a
cryptic
um it's like yeah it's like next level
like what the hell are we even doing
it's like bra brain [__] but it's
actually probably a good a well-designed
uh
syntax yeah I have no idea how to read
that but so yeah I want to read through
the compiler but I got to
pee
for for
I'm back dude Olay I also am getting
crazy into I just got a go gole pixel
watch wait
um car update with in the bend one oh no
in the hvm one oh I see I get it wait
but this
doesn't H I thought I knew what you were
talking about but now I don't wait what
about the other way does this oh does
this use an old hvm
okay so we want to go to and I love that
they do one crate per I hate these cargo
workspaces I think that's a total mess
too confusing because then you can't see
the dependencies right off the
bat see neither of these depend on each
other that's the weird
thing so I I would have
expected let's see what did he say
and why do I care about it being from
Source mainly just because it's easier
for me to think about but let's go to
bend the GitHub
repo and just do this
again presumably I can just rerun this
and it'll
update okay wait so if I just does that
actually
install oh that installs hvm
also okay so apparently they're like
kind of out of sync at the moment or
something
just sync the Upstream I did pull I
pulled oh wait are you saying a
different branch I don't know all right
I'm going to try this
first all
[Music]
right okay so
what are we doing now we have
hvm okay
right okay so let's let's do
that what did we have we had hello right
hello oh no okay so bend gen
hvm okay there we go then hvm run hello.
hm okay cool
okay so we have a way to do that so now
what oh wait actually
um so I need to just use that tag that
that's actually what it is is okay how
do I get the b-v
um oh there we
go this is 2 point okay so that was just
tagged
so um so why don't we just check that
out okay so how do I check this
out wait
wait I want
to oh there we
go I saw someone using this
earlier how do I switch to this
tag wait this is the wrong one
though okay so now I should be able
to
um do
this oh yeah so my watch dude uh it get
my heart rate at some point I want to do
something where like during the stream I
have a live little overlay that shows my
current heart rate because I think that
would be so
hilarious um actually that would be kind
of cool to like correlate viewership and
heart rate I don't know that's maybe
like total nonsense but then I just
bought a scale at Target that um sinks
to my Google fit so I'm I'm ramping up
my biometric data logging because I want
to really take this getting fit thing
seriously okay so we're good there now
we just need to know what
tag
hvm
what wait can't I just do that I can
probably literally copy paste it
clap let's just do that that that be a
fun PR to
make um so it's in
Maine and we
want D sugar we want
verbose wait no not verbose we want
version CI mode for
Bose command what is this can I hover
over this I guess not
where do I even find this okay
wait I'll just
ask reading rest SCE is greater than 180
I hope not Honestly though I'm kind of
worried my resting heart rate is
apparently kind of high it's
90 I don't know I haven't actually done
enough research to like start to know
um latest published versions of both
should be the latest yeah
that's what all I don't want to bother
him anymore I'm just going to stop
talking
um but we do want to add this okay I get
what's going on I'm all over the
place uh wait we want this Main and I
want to
know where is the part with
um Dash V for ver version
so wait so do I just change that and it
works
um I can and I
do what do you what do you mean by
overweight a a bit hyped
working yeah okay what the hell is going
on so if I just
add that to
the hash command they don't do it the
same okay how would I add version to
this
what happens if you do
both uh
Bend I guess it does that one first and
then it takes the rest of his
arguments h little
strange no
what wait is that
true is that what they're doing
I think cuz H there's so much syntax in
clap and I've never spent the time to
actually learn what the hell they're
talking about I'm just going to make an
issue add-
V for
version to clap
app
okay I should be able to do that myself
but I'm too
stupid yeah yeah I want to add that so
okay here's here's what's
happening this is using this D clap wait
no yeah this is using a clap derivation
syntax
but and this is Bend this is the highle
language and so somehow it's able
to I guess this command must parse the
cargo. toml and extract version from
it which is great because you only
really want one place where it's written
down but hvm on the other
hand um is written in this other like
old since tax which in my
opinion is a little bit more
annoying well it's more annoying because
I don't know what the the macro version
actually D like lowers down into like
it's probably just
a I mean they said do verion manually
but but you don't want to set the
version you want to want it to be parsed
automatically all right destruct for
what so this okay wait the struct I'll
show you the struct here's the CLI
struct I don't know if that's actually
the I'm guessing because that's probably
the yeah that's the only one with the
actual command
it's probably
that oh wait no no that's something
else okay so yeah so then they
abstracted away that there's some
generic arguments to
run and then there's okay that that that
all makes
sense well where do they actually talk
about the
version cuz it's not for any of these
so somewhere
else what
DS no I don't know what you're talking
about oh wait can I just do this Dash v
no oh wait v no that's not it
oh Discord yeah for
sure okay wait hold on I want to also I
want to add
um an audio
audio output capture it's probably what
I want wait actually let's do this
application audio capture so that you
can get
um Discord oh wait but I'm
on okay that's probably
fine okay say
something hello oh perfect all right the
audio looks good too
um yeah all right so let's go to this
code yeah I'm reading stack right
now hey yeah so I guess easiest solution
would be to provide unv uh from cargo
cargo version but yeah it's not a nice
solution actually I mean there probably
is a really easy way
of yeah
um is it is it version four of clap of
clap yeah yeah yeah and take a look into
tumble file yeah oh yeah we can probably
look at the tomel yeah four
five awesome
and give me a
second let me just take a look at the
example
yeah wait
uh did you try to run help
command
um in
hvm where you don't have the like Dash
and Big so hvm is the one yeah without
it so let's do this DH okay oh the this
just prints the same message over
again yeah so there is no helping there
right yeah wait was it with help wait
I'm confused a bit uh oh yeah I see I
see I see I see yeah so both of these
gave the same
message wait they have the same message
so they don't show the version I know
yeah I wanted to show the version so I
could do this but I feel like this is
not not as clean as I would like yeah
yeah that's that's that's exactly what I
meant before wait you do not need build
rest for that you can do that right in
the main file yeah you yeah I see I know
um yeah just give me a second I'm
honestly a bit confused because um oh
wait oh I see why do they yeah oh I see
how they're doing it yeah this is kind
of annoying I don't want to do
that wait what are they doing what they
did is they have they set the
environment variable in this build thing
and then they're able to use it in the
main file no no no no no they just
[__] by shpt the environment
variable is already set up by a compiler
you don't need to build a rest hold on I
don't know if you'll be able to see this
can you see this bird wait hold on
there's this really cool looking bird
well your webcam is like a I know my
webcam is total [__] tell me if you can
see the bird it's got a red oh I scared
it away all right
whatever birds are so finicky man they
all
right all
right had it had a red and then it had
it had a red head and black and white
stripes never seen it
before I mean sounds fancy I guess
all
right
um what if I wanted
to you use the command
macro how would I change this Cod
oh I think I
found give me a second I need to compare
to
builders it's wrong here
do
I okay
um wait so maybe I just do this I could
just I could just update them to use the
macro version that's not too
bad yeah you definitely
can if it's not too much work that yeah
okay so let's just try can you show me
the whole Builder which is the
Builder bilder is the like a not macro
version oh yeah not a the version
um it's in main
here I think they just manually disable
version for some reason I'm bit confused
because I found the example on a clap
cookbook uh
it seems easy so
far uh where do they map actions oh wa
yeah I see I see
now I mean I don't even know how to read
this because I've never me I've never
Built My Own clap
so yeah I be need to Dove mostly yeah
the derive one seems nice and simple I
might just do it just to simplify the
uh even if I don't actually need
to I mean right so if you have a lot of
actions it may be not that easy to
convert it into the revive version but
there's
only wait why I mean shouldn't it
literally just be like switching this
out for the strs this whole let matches
and then
do CLI parse
yeah yeah but it can be a bit finicky
with uh with function pointers okay then
probably will work fine well let me let
me read it a little
bit where can I find this code uh yeah
let me
link and then I what did I do oh yeah I
got distracted because I um here I'll
put it in the twitch chat just
MH
yeah okay so that's the the that's the
compiler and then
bend is the the one that has the
derive it's in main right main rest yeah
I really like how they structured it
because I I always like just having a a
main file so that you can just cargo run
I think it's a good way of doing run
projects all right all right can you can
you comment out Arc required else
help uh yeah it's
um should I rerun yeah can you just come
in yeah wait hold on okay okay there we
go so let's do cr--
release
okay okay requires a sub command but one
was not
provided see yeah now can you wait give
me a second can you run now yeah so what
I meant to do
was oh wait uh yeah but I could also do
dashh all right same
thing oh [__] okay that wasn't it yeah
so in uh in clap cookbook you have two
examples here one print out version
another one do can you
that yeah yeah certainly so here's the
one I
guess right so here's the one with um
with a version and here's one without
version
okay so this this one that I'm reading
doesn't have
version Oh yeah this one wait no this
one did have
version where the second one get uh I
think the first one you
sent okay so G one does not have version
but cargo example does have version oh
okay yeah so let me go so this derive
one that you sent doesn't have version
let's see what it
outputs okay both of them are Builder oh
so okay so I get what you're saying is
that there is some cuz in this first
example they don't manually refer to
version at
all so yeah right okay I get what what's
going on
now
huh um
oh and
interestingly wait no interestingly
though the version info on this one
is a is an option for the example sub
command not the overall command so it's
still a little different I
think like for an
example cuz like they have the examp
there's two there's two invocations of
their clap thing here the first one
doesn't have any sub command provided
and the the second one
does right I noted that
all right I mean you have more examples
what's this clap um
command okay wait I could just start to
um wait so yeah this is the Builder API
I get it so I'm going to make a
new CL oh cookbook find has the equation
on the
root wait say that again
let me just send you a link okay yeah
this one has version on the
root okay
cool yeah so okay so it's this
command macro or something
whoa what
the okay oh I get it this is a real yeah
this is a real example
nice
um okay yeah and this uses the Builder
API I get it wait do they have below the
version no okay I thought maybe that
they had
both all right so
command yeah you know what let me just
it must just be that macro like does
it yeah I think so
okay
so oh
wa the cargo Fe
c c add
clap F
cargo okay
oh yeah okay it does need that feature
flag wait maybe that's the only
difference maybe Bend has enabled that
feature on their dependency on
clap feature right there's oh wait no
that's the car no sorry I'm
mistaken they have the derive feature
but they don't
have because
what am I trying to say I just tried to
run this wait but they don't have once
the command macro but that's actually no
yeah yeah they use command new
instead but somehow this does something
with version right here we go this is
exactly what we so the the command macro
is what does the
versioning and there is just another
macro called create
version I don't know where that
is Al macro I guess it Returns the EnV
variable oh yeah it actually just um you
know what is it possible that just cargo
run sets that
environment that I told you about that
like five minutes ago it does it sends a
whole list of variables including your
package name your version oh okay gosh
your rust version like required rust
version rust Edition I should littleit
of them oh so why couldn't we just do
this for the simplest fix is we go to
this thing and we just do do version and
then we just do no no no no no no need
to you can just replace command
new uh with command macro oh really okay
clap command all right yeah that's cool
and you don't need that version thing
then oh wait command cargo feature flag
is
re wait let's just try I mean I don't
care about adding a dependency to this C
add clap D wait what um
cargo wait do they wait don't they use
macros
anywhere okay so let's try
to do this
that's
weird do you need to release every
single time is it aure
of oh nice so we did it but the
interestingly wait that
says okay what does this
say okay so I think it's all we needed
to do to make the fix so I think we
probably revert this but one thing that
I liked is okay when I did CR
Dash Oh wait [__]
whatever
um I'm sorry why do you compile it every
time no I I had already had it compiled
but I accidentally did the non-release
version okay so the thing that's nice
here though is that you get these
options listed without doing help so
this command one it only actually get
allows you to do the version I mean it
allows you to do it both times I get it
but it yeah oh
wait never mind I guess I was wrong yeah
yeah all right so this is all we need so
we should just make this PR
then right because I mean that's a
pretty
working I don't know let's see did they
respond to this
thing hopefully not and then I get the
cred all right I'm going to make this uh
change
so they don't publish the cargo to lock
so all I need to commit is the toml and
the uh basically one line change to this
thing let's look at the diff wait wait
you also need cargo Tomo because you
added the um yeah yeah that's what I
mean is the cargo Tomo but not the lock
file and yeah and that and that's the
whole wait I'm sorry don't they have get
ignore like
what's going on oh yeah that's actually
a good point wait let's see if they
actually cuz some people Comm the H is
there yeah see they they're committing
the
lock that's stupid isn't it Library yeah
wait it's a binary right it's uh not a
binary I think it is
text no I mean if it's a library or it's
a binary like a CLI tool oh if it's a
binary then it's it's kind of makes
sense
because if it's a binary it makes sense
to commit the lock
file
yeah okay well I me case I can it always
makes sense to to commit loog file it
it's fine just just in case of Library
sort of preference because you get um
you may run into issues with um
binned versions so with libraries yeah
people tend to ignore lock files so I'm
just going to try to commit this then I
think yeah sure all right make sure you
don't have anything extra in there but
yeah yeah maybe you run cargo fmt before
cargo what yeah cargo fmt what is the
fmt oh yeah right good idea and then
cargo
um oh wait yeah that's the problem is
that now
it's
l that's actually super [__]
annoying wish I didn't do that well you
know what I'm not going to commit
because it actually reformatted like
literally
everything I'm just gonna not uh commit
those though so wait did they not do
that
before God that's a
m okay so it seems like the test pass
so I'm just GNA do
this yeah you can just rever them yeah
just you can right click on them and
like but I oh wait yeah I probably do
need to do
that why did they do
it I mean it should be formatted already
right okay so wait now that I've redone
the whole PR I should test this one more
um oh wait why does it still have the
formatting changes oh wait no it it
doesn't it's that
I'm no it does have the formatting
changes I have no idea what's going on
let's see just just re
them how do I do
that uh you can hover your mouse on your
left side of like where you have Source
control and you can just click this R
button yeah I'm ning this get stash I
don't care um we already have the one
line that we need which is
this then we need to do c add clap cargo
and then that's the whole PR all right
so now I feel better about my wait but
it's still oh you know what okay this
formatting is
actually I don't like that but
why did this oh you know
what no it's
cuz yeah it's because on paste I think
it oh there we go that's what I oh we
yeah I just triggered it that's what
happened okay so yeah we're just gonna
do this this and this and then I need to
um Okay add
version op
flag
using okay that's that's
fine okay create
Fork create
PR okay nice that was
easy so uh can you show me there getting
our file closes
uh there already beat me to
it I don't think
so okay uh they get ignore
yeah okay and I'll be back in a
second
okay
e
e e
okay I'm
back
um so what am I trying to do now oh yeah
now that everything oh no so I need to
now check out the
tag
tag uh right I want the latest tag on H
oh no not bend on
hvm because yeah for real they they
don't have any
tags wait what why did they why do you
even need
tags you don't need tags I I guess not
okay wait let's see if this works though
[Music]
um wait so hvm
run hello do
uh works so that's totally
fine but now what you mean it
works th panicked what no I didn't look
at the one
below oh I see I see um oh they have no
okay yeah yeah I just did the name wrong
um what do we want to do we want to do
das
run yeah so the this is the problem
is
um so what is Bend doing that's I guess
the question how is
Bend so we want to go to the main then
we want to see what Bend run
does check gen
G wait we want to mat the match
on okay parse
the execute
C oops it's not what I wanted to do okay
oh
okay check gen hvm
genc D sugar there we go so this is the
one we want we want the
Run wait oh okay it's an ore I get
it what are you trying to
do I'm trying to
see okay so my understanding is that
here wait if I just do bend it it'll say
run compiles the program and runs it
with the rust hvm implementation so that
is this hvm repo I think but for some
reason Bend
run whatever hello world.
Bend Works meaning that whatever version
of hvm it's
using is one that works so I'm just
trying to figure out how I can do it
from Source because basically all I want
to do is I want to print out
I want to print out this book
variable oh wait I want to print out
this book variable on run because I'm
trying to I'm trying to make a a graph
visualization thing for this language
but basically a like a very primitive
debugger okay so let's figure out wait
I'm sorry so what's the issue is is it
just version mismatch it it must be but
there's no tags for me to check out so I
don't know what commit I need to oh you
know what maybe I can just look at wait
but the lock file doesn't even have hvm
in it that's the confusing part so does
it just make the shelfit what the hell
is it doing wait wait I'm sorry I bit
confused do it is it a library is it
published to Crate I'm pretty sure
they
both
oh I don't know I don't you have to
check wait so here we have hm thing
right uh Reaper where can I find Reaper
for there's another thing oh yeah did I
never send that I probably
didn't all right here's the second
one all all right oh yeah same going
yeah wait so but it does depend right
wait I think but I can't find it in the
cargo
toml all right just give me a second
probably just publish under another
name get workflow checks why he manually
publishes it f fmt
SP oh yeah here we go this is exactly
okay this is so interesting so
um so yeah all all right are you looking
at the Stream
yeah I do okay so in the main it run it
the the execute the CLI it calls this
function run book if you look at the
contents of run book it just shells out
so it literally just calls Standard
Process command and calls
hvm let's see is hvm actually on
crates.io
I mean it wouldn't help you if even if
it was because you can't just call
update and it will update the underlined
version you would need to update the
installed thing how do I get the commit
for this uh
version wait I'm sorry you didn't get
the commit you need to install the thing
no no I know that I have to do that but
what I'm trying to do
is run it from
Source you want to install from Source
right
uh yeah I guess I want to in I mean it's
the same
thing and sort of because you build and
then you move into rmd folder CU okay
tell me if this is right when you
install you basically are just
assigning
uh uh
you know some command on the command
line to run this clap app so it's
virtually the same thing as running
cargo run in this
directory really huh so um right so when
you install something right you download
it sources you compile it and when and
then this file this compiled binary it's
moved to the rust uh um I'm not sure how
it's called it's either either R binary
folder or rmd folder and this folder is
uh is included into your path command so
when
you yeah so when you like enter the name
of the command this name of this binary
file is found inside of one of those
path folders one of which is your rust
CMD that binary is the same binary as if
I did cargo
run yeah yeah yeah yeah it's have this
difference that you can find it with a
with path yeah okay so the only
difference is really the path so yeah so
I want to do cargo run from this rep
from this source and have and actually
be able to run the thing without this
error so
basically presumably if I go into cargo
Tomo the version of this is 2014 so I
need to check out the old one but um um
no tags I think I'm gonna make an issue
for no tags because tags are really
useful to check out certain versions
wait I'm I'm really confused why would
you need to like old the version Don't
you want to fix
it
well don't you need the newer version of
the underline thing but I'm on
Main wait do you have main
installed oh
wait
um what do you mean on Main what is the
version what you have in
your okay can could you please go back
to the thing that calls the command
yeah like STD command yeah here it
is uh I'm bit blind okay
hm all right just right now can you
enter hvm version into your console yeah
and I think that this is the one that
doesn't have a v argument that's why I
added the V cuz I wanted to know what
version this is
using so awesome yeah right yes so you
can see how we got this
far yeah now now you can just install
your
fork
so yeah so okay so can I just do cargo
install yeah
use using cargo
install okay any errors okay let's just
do that uh sto um yeah I think you need
PA yeah path adult okay so
now okay replace package 2013 with 14
okay perfect yep so
now now this should fail actually now I
should have an issue issue where if I
try to run this okay that's wait okay
wait hold
on huh and I have no idea what's going
to happen but
yeah uh no that's confusing because what
I would have expected to happen
is okay if I cloned hvm and bend at
their their latest
commit then yeah
car then cargo
run uh on Bend where I call run wait I'm
sorry wait give me a second a band is
the thing that uses hvm right not the
vice versa right yeah oh right so if I
do
this this this
command uh D- run this is calling so if
I print out here so
print on uh we just shelling
out maybe the path didn't get no but I
opened a new terminal so it should be
that the
hvm oh you know what we can actually
test it because if I do
hvm yeah so then we're
good are we good compile time okay so we
are just calling this but now I don't
know
why in this repo I can't do cargo run d
d release wait hold on let me do
this gen
hvm and then pipe that
to a
uh yeah
hello
world. oh
wait hello world.
hm okay so
now we have the hello world hm
code and what I want to do is I'm going
to replace this just in
case
okay why did have so many of these
things
open God all right wait hold on so now I
want to do this is a different
version
what no I have two windows you just open
I have one one window is hm and the
other window is uh Bend all the other
things are
nonsense all right let's close this why
did you copy the hall world
oh yeah
because okay so what this subcommand
does gen hm is it generates the IR I
guess basically it it outputs what hvm
takes as an
input all right right so that's that's
why they use this shelling out thing
because they
basically I think they call this a
book but anyways they run this book just
by calling hm so I'm wondering why I
can't just use the source
code I mean you just did oh there we go
all right so we're working we're we're
good okay no but I I I never got it
running with cargo I only got it running
with
the cargo installed
thing okay so now we're good and now I
want print
out yeah because it wasn't well replaced
in your path that's that's why okay
so yeah so I want to print out this book
but I feel
like that's M car honest damn it come
on I wonder if this will work
doesn't Implement debug I just told it
to implement
debug oh was it the
debug yeah it's debug
can you go back so which
one wait
um do you have only one
error
yeah I'm sorry is it the error because
book does not Implement debug or
something that is inside of a book does
not have a debug yeah I was wondering
that
too okay so yeah maybe there's some
nested no but B tree map
it should Implement I think you would
you would expect but actually I don't
see any derives
here I think it's manually
implemented oh yeah because you have
generic yeah it's probably not derived I
get
you it's something reg presumably I
could also just print book. deaths and
then we could check for
sure all right can you just
oh wow so maybe it actually isn't
implemented
because wait oh wait what the type of
books.
deaths is not what I thought it would
be I thought it would like I would
expect instead of death to be written
here that it says b tree
map oh wait as no yeah that's the right
wait what look like uh let Fu equal
book. deaths what is the type that it's
going to say here yeah veck of death
that's so
weird I thought a
book oh wait oh I was going to the wrong
thing yeah I was going to the wrong
thing okay so death does not have
it so we're trying to go to this book so
let's do
this wait are there several times of
book oh there are okay okay so then we
need to go to De because DEA you're
right doesn't have this
thing and then a pair doesn't have this
thing I'm sure this breaks all kind of
things but hopefully we can I don't
think it
breaks oh wait oh wait no that's
okay yeah yeah okay unless it has a
manual implementation so why should
break
anything okay but it didn't actually
print oh wait that's cuz I'm a dumbass
hold
on is this the same book okay it is all
right so now this is what we want to do
okay that is sort of what I
was okay I get
it holy [__]
okay so what is this
thing so these are a bunch of deaths and
luckily DEA I think has no dock
string
[Music]
so what do you want to do de
I'm trying to figure that out um because
I mean right let me put it what is the
end goal right
so uh so I made this
issue uh yeah so I made this
issue you wanted to make some kind of a
image right out of these points yes
exactly do you see any positions there
here let me link this issue
so all
right so I looked at the two repas that
he linked but I could not figure out how
to use
them right I me I'm really confused it's
something I don't usually do right
yeah but I think that this
the all right I mean I think I can help
you here um what is this image made of
like it just points on a plane right so
wait did I show you that little
video no I didn't think you have okay
did you okay so wait here probably you
have wa okay wait
just yeah I think you showed me like two
days ago
all right so these is what these graphs
look like but the problem is this one
for this promotional video is was
handdrawn all right so basically and
because this represents running the
program so if you want to debugger then
you need to know how the graph is
Rewritten
wait I'm bit confused how did three
multipli by
three and zah being this convoluted
thing I I haven't gotten that
far and then how do you want it to be
represented if you don't have some kind
of a spec how to represent you know what
graph V
is yeah I definitely do yeah
so just wanted a uh I mean at at what I
would want
is okay
so the graph data type my understanding
is that there are different types of
nodes um but in my very
simplest usable thing I would just
totally disregard node type and all I
would want to know is what nodes are
connected to which other noes that's
it all right and type death defines a
node and Edge or
what um wait say that
again okay so you have this death type
right yeah what is death type is it a
node is it a grass Edge yeah that uh
what is it yeah that's a very good
question
this doesn't help me at all it has a
name um
okay all right real question uh what is
the initial
expression of this thing the initial
expression
oh yeah like what is the formula
whatever okay so this is the okay wait
I'll show you the bend code and then
I'll show you the uh hvm
code can we have something really simple
like yeah so apparently this
is this is the parallel hello world
example so I think what it does is it
Returns the yeah it Returns the sum of 0
to 2 the 16
so this generate
generates a uh a a tree
recursively and this is like special
syntax
I I want to spend some time reading
through all of the cuz on on the bend
repo they have some nice reading
material like
explaining uh yeah they have guide and I
read through this briefly but I want to
read through it again but it explains
kind of basic language features and then
the
more cool stuff related to the
parallelism so mainly it's just that you
do folds yeah where is
it yeah it folds and Ben looks like
weird python honestly well that they
they intentionally did that
they they wanted to make it as easy as
possible you know so that people
wouldn't be too scared of it because if
you showed
someone um
this you know it's like okay I don't
really want to I don't really want to
learn this
language so they need to drive adoption
so that people will make libraries and
stuff like
that oh but anyways let's see wait but
this I'm sorry but this death thing
right yeah it's generated from
this from this hvm thing right it's not
generated from the original thing yeah
death it wait what do you
mean death you have this death structure
yeah what is it generated
from
So You you mean you mean from like okay
so bend code gets lowered down into hvm
code and then this hbm code I guess gets
lowered
into a book which is a vector of these
definitions yeah that's what I was
asking well you just need to write
something extremely simple so that you
can understand understand what is one
yeah I know I
know cuz you cuz I can see let's
see something not recursive least wait I
want to
um okay so there's 12
definitions I wonder if that's really
like
um 1 2 3 4 five 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 okay I
see so these definitions are literally
definitions in the IR I get it but now
understanding what a definition actually
means is
different wait hold on I got to go
wait but it won't help you then but I
think it might
store uh yeah you're right I think uh
yeah I think you're right I think we
need to see what this run function
actually does oh wait here we go okay
initializes the global net that's what
we
want but this
is oh okay all right so and gnet
okay yeah length of the node buffer
length of the vs
buffer I don't know what vs is you would
expect to be edges or
something oh wait no interaction count
maybe it's that it this is probably the
edge
count initializes threads and it only
okay
iter what does position do
[Music]
oh position where okay so it finds the
main I get
it yeah so main has some ID or something
somewhere oh wait let's go back
to death
I wonder what the
ID
is I'm sure what do you mean
IDE oh that's just
the oh that position list okay yeah I
get it right thank you okay push redex
that redex is like a special thing in
this um
the Paar Paar is
what interesting it's just a
u64 what does this new take oh it takes
two
ports they do a bunch of bit banging to
like make this fast so some of this is
just
like
uh probably OB fiscated a little bit
hold
on
for e
oh man it's a perfect day to be coding
this [__] is so
cool I love alternative ways of Compu
Computing
things all
right
okay okay so this does the evaluation
perfect
okay so let's just
derive I don't know why they
didn't think beon is
obious okay then what else do we need we
needed a
port okay Dam it's so
cursed is that cursed
why that why is that
Cur okay so now let's print out this
thing oh I formatted it [__] I should
just make the pr that formats this thing
holy
[__] wait so okay so yeah so this
indeed this is
stupid no it just died I need to
um did I go too
fast yeah and they also should sorry
okay wait what if I do this to outut or
log
wa what the hell is that what are those
zeros
what I think what they do is that
they they have some buffer of like all
the all the nodes or I don't know a pair
I feel like might be an edge actually
because even though it's one number I
think it's because this is a 32-bit
thing they keep talking about how they
have 4 GB of RAM utilization maximum at
the moment per core I think
so uh so each node I think takes up 32
bits and so a pair is 64 and it's stores
two nodes so it's probably an edge but
this this is getting this is too long
let's see did it actually save
anything oh my God it's 2.3 gigs
yeah that's not that's not
okay so what we want to do is probably
find
um okay wait what is the gnet the gnet
has
sorry your stream is dying oh is
it yeah I've reloaded like four times
now it's like give me a second it like
shows like two frames and then it just
do let me try to switch to
ethernet oh we just no we
died oh was
going
for for
it's for
okay I should have
oh wait no it is really
dying
[__] yeah it
does I'll just drop the bit
right quality might go down but the
frame drops I'll probably be
better wait no is it
improving
no um oh wait there we go I think it
finally went
through all right how's
this oh something
happens I dropped the video so it should
be
it should be at least more
stable but the quality should be a
little bit
lower wow I haven't noticed any changes
to
bulleting okay wait but is it still
[Laughter]
bad what hey let me just visit it myself
it's okay I
guess no it's fine man I can still see
ladders it's it's fine I guess all right
yeah it's
fine okay um so what were we doing we're
trying to print out so yeah so I want to
find all the nonzero a
pairs that's what I want to do
I'm a bit confused isn't
it is non zero pair just means that
there is a node at this index I think
it's like a
null
oh I mean I is sort of like a Jon Z
Matrix
yeah oh yeah I see what you're
saying could be
I feel like they would I don't know okay
what's the difference between a port and
a
pair okay so one is 32 bits and the
other is 64
bits why did they had to over
complicated I think it's
performance I mean you you can do just
do the same thing with two
inss just make them a line is 164 no but
they they let's
see it's not an
issue they also have it as atomic for
whatever reason well that makes sense
because
uh yeah you you would want this to be
Atomic for sure
why because you're doing all this on
different threads and
stuff so
what that just sounds like a way to get
raise
condition I mean either you lockage and
you make it unsafe the whole point of
the language though is that the graph it
doesn't care about what order you do the
rewrites in that's like the whole point
basically so you actually
yeah but you can write when you
read that's an issue with atomic you you
introduce data race I thought that
Atomic prevented
that no you have an ARA of atomics you
can freely read one when you write to
another so does that mean like let's say
okay let's say you have a piece of
memory that's like a
u64 could it be the case that you're
like you've written the first four Byes
and now you read it so you have this
read that's actually corrupted
data no no no that doesn't happen with
atomic but you have array of
atomics every element in this array I
mean you do not lock the whole array you
effectively you lock each element wait
hold on on I'm getting a call really
quick what's
up streaming
yeah you you should you should
go uh by
yourself you can't be you just can't be
you got to you got to lock in and touch
some
grass okay wait I'll call you in like 20
minutes I'm kind of wrapping up
bye all right what were you
saying well you talking
atomics yeah and they do not look the
whole Chun of
elements Atomic is you effectively you
you lock a single element in
this list of subsequent elements so you
can write first element while you read
second one
but if if a chunk say if a list of those
elements they represent a single entity
then this entity as a whole can be in
invalid
State I don't fully understand but I I
think I know what you're
saying okay so let me put it this
different way let's say one of those
elements is a node and another one is a
node yeah one node can be
overwritten and another one can be
removed even though there is still a
graph between them oh I
okay wait
but isn't that just a matter of updating
the edge to be to delete the edge as
well yeah but when do you do it yeah if
you read if you read The Edge at this
point
you
will you will get the edge between
existing element and something that was
just deleted that just freaking stupid
probably probably they just probably
they have have it split into chunks and
they look chunks separately but again
you you should do it without atomics
because with atomics you explicitly say
I don't care about parallel read right
here okay wait so let me go to this
um oh wait we were just there okay
so oh
wait I can just um
okay yeah so they have seven node
types and I
guess okay so this is all about the
syntax okay this is
interactions yeah
yeah so you get these Matrix of so this
is a what one two 3 four five six seven
okay so this is eight because it's seven
node types and then VAR which is like
special for some reason but I don't know
why yet and then what do they
call this is what they call
them these are the rule names
so this is all the interactions so for
each pair of node types you get an
interaction and there are one 2 3 4 five
six 7
8 there are eight
okay so there eight interaction types
and eight node
types what is used
for well the whole point is that it can
be a massively parallel language because
because of the property that it's
confluent meaning it doesn't matter in
what order you apply rewrites then you
can sort of just spawn a bunch of cores
give them a piece of the graph and have
them do their rewrites that's at least
my understanding so
far so as far as I understand it's
purely academic project supp for right
yeah it's pretty pretty a academic I
mean they made a company around it
called higher order Co
but but like right now this thing does
not have IO and you can't use multiple
gpus so there's like a ton of you know
limitations
oh
wait the VAR node represents a wiring in
the graph connecting two ports of a
net so what do these tags get used okay
yeah so this all makes sense so we have
the
seven uh node types and then we have the
oh wait sorry
eight yeah eight and
eight okay and then there's a tag for
the
different op codes I
guess oh yeah see free is wait no sorry
never
mind wait what is a
port u3
too does it have a dock
string wish it
did
um yeah I'm really confused about this
thing okay so it it seems like
vars I don't really know why they call
it vars but seems like the vs buffer is
actually the um holy [__] the number of
edges so let me print
vand oh I'm just taking a look at the
getop
insights have you seen the total amount
of
lines of code
here yeah I think I did look at
it oh wow wait that's seriously how many
nodes there
are that's kind of
Bonkers okay wait let's come up with a
even simpler um they have an even
simpler thing in the
guide of Bend which is
yeah okay so let's do Hello
World okay so if I do
[Music]
Bend uh gen
hvm hello.
Bend okay so that's a pretty
all right sort of makes sense so this is
all right so we're going to rename this
to be
parallel okay then we're going to
do
okay
now what the hell a
BC
what all right anyways now let's try
to okay y I think I gotta go yeah no
worries why is it still that many
no all right well I'm going to pick up
on this later anyways
see you see you then